So to understand the modern way of building Android applications, we need to look at jetpack and what
is Jetpack.
So Jetpack is a library of tools to help developers build a modern Android apps.
The most important thing is that when these modern apps are built, they must follow the best practices.
So that's the whole idea behind Jetpack.
So when you hear jetpack, talk about ways to build robust Android apps that are flexible, that are
adaptive, especially nowadays with a plethora of different Android devices that following the best
practices.
So the idea is to reduce boilerplate code and make sure that there is a consistency across Android versions
because, as you know, Android is very fragmented.
There are different devices, different versions, different manufacturers and so forth.
And so to have some sort of a holy grail or say of how do we structure our Android apps, how do we
build our Android apps to have this consistency is very, very important.
And of course, that leads us to follow best practices.
So Jetpack Library has a lot of types.
So here are just a few types we can find.
So the graphics navigation, which allows developers to have a more consistent and a more consistent
across the board way of of navigating users are using their app lifecycle user interface, which is
a big one.
We have media, we have security data as well as performance and test.
So these are just the few types of library that come with jetpack.
So the Android team with a lot of experience, they had to come up with something that is more uniform
as Android is growing, as the differences in devices also is growing and the whole industry in general,
development industry, mobile industry is evolving.
So they had to come up with a solution at least close to a solution that could unify the the way Android
developers develop applications.
This course is going to focus on jetpack compose.
So what is Jetpack Compose?
Jetpack Compose is Android's modern toolkit for building native UI.
UI is user interface.
So Jetpack Compose again goes back to that main reason that we have jetpack the the library's right,
which is to write less code with powerful tools and also that will accelerate development.
So that is to minimize the work involved in building Android applications, really, but not just building
Android application, building applications with less code and application that are consistent with
the ecosystem and retrieval system and so forth.
That's what Jetpack Compose brings to us a modern toolkit for building native UI.
The great thing about Jetpack Compose is that it uses not only a separate set of Kotlin APIs and application
programming interfaces, so essentially libraries, but also uses traditional Coughlin's libraries.
This is really important because not only can you use the set libraries that are free compose within
Kotlin, of course, but you can also use codling APIs in general with compose.
It's really, really powerful.
Now why jetpack compose?
That's a very good question.
The industry is changing.
But let's let's talk about this now.
Jetpack compose is a huge shift in Android development, because now we're using what they call declarative
UI.
It forces the imperative approach.
Now what is this imperative approach?
Well, the imperative approach is what we do, what we have been doing so far in Android development.
OK.
And truth be told, it is too complicated the way things are or the way things have been done, too
complicated because there are a lot of moving parts.
For instance, the UI designer face is deeply coupled with the logic and vice versa, which brings a
very inflexible eco system coupled means that there is no separation between uses and the logic.
So there is this very togetherness that is not healthy, per say, which makes for a very inflexible
coat.
For example, one of the examples that we have to render, for instance, a list with a few items in
traditional Android development, you will need to create a recycle or use or recycle view, which is
a very complicated class.
And this recycle fruit will need an adapter which, because adapter will know exactly how to position
the items inside of this recycle view and these items that we're putting inside of recycled view, which
need adapter.
These also will need a view holder, which is a pattern that allows for the recycling of each item that
is shown on the screen.
So this is actually simplification that I'm putting it together.
But even though there were three steps that we need here, it's very, very complicated.
In fact, if you have done traditional Android development, you will attest that this indeed gets messy.
That's the imperative approach.
This is just one example, among many others.
But with a declarative approach in this case, jetpack compose things are different in that they are
simpler and more efficient.
So no more boilerplate code, right?
Because now what are you doing is we are declaring or describing in code what we want to see and not
describing every step to get the result.
For example, to render a list with a few items.
This is the same example we had previously in the imperative approach in jetpack compose.
All you need is a lazy column.
That's it, because now we're just describing what we want to happen.
We are not going through the process of describing every step to get the result.
Lazy column is the equivalent in this case of a recycled view we saw previously without all of the jargon
that we have to know.
And we have to implement ourselves to get things done.
That is a new way of thinking about creating Android applications using jetpack compose.
So if you're familiar with the imperative way of creating Android applications, this will be very,
very familiar to you.
So in traditional Android development to create user interfaces, we use email right?
And then we connect the XML to get the actions right by using an activity Java class or Kathleen as
well.
Right.
And of course, that's the only way we are actually able to create that application.
And then so that the user can start interacting with your application.
And the activity has a logic and the user interface comes from an Excel file.
So with our new way of thinking of creating application jetpack compose that is no longer needed because
now we have this declarative UI approach of creating user interfaces, in this case also applications
Android applications.
We talked about declarative UI approach.
Well, this is what it means.
So this is how you would declare a user interface, as you can see here.
This is what we call a composable function.
It composable function will compose hostname, apply some piece of a user interface.
So in this case here, if you were to read this, it would make sense.
First, we are saying we want a card.
We are not describing how to create a card, just saying we want a card and we're going to pass a few
things inside of that card.
Well, this card is going to have a column which will contain a text.
Not only text, but it will also contain an image inside of this column, right?
And of course, there is some logic that we're doing there, that we're making this column clickable.
And when this column is clicked, we want to toggle between a certain state expanded or not expanded,
right?
So even if you'd never seen this code before, you never even looked at compose.
This should make some sense, right?
We have a card and we have a column.
It's a column.
We are describing what we want.
We want an image.
And we also want a text.
This text is going to be animated at some point.
Right.
Because I see there is this animated visibility that means it's going to be toggled between on and off,
depending on whether we have clicked the column or not.
That's it.
This is what we call declarative UI approach.
And this is how it's done with Jetpack Compose.
And that's what's going to be focusing on in this course.
I hope you're excited to learn more about Jetpack Compose as excited as I am because I'm so excited
to show you around.
And all right, I'll see you next time.